Research and add defaults to HTTP resilience content (#41611)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/resilience/http-resilience.md

description: Learn how to build resilient HTTP apps using the Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience NuGet package.
author: IEvangelist
ms.author: dapine
ms.date: 07/01/2024
---

> # Build resilient HTTP apps: Key development patterns

Reviewer: Shall we also include what status codes and exceptions are handled for retries and circuit breaker?

https://github.com/dotnet/extensions/blob/afde87b8812ef0b1dcee5db35cb3a49ca6dc9197/src/Libraries/Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience/Polly/HttpClientResiliencePredicates.cs#L25

The default configuration chains five resilience strategies in the following order (from the outermost to the innermost):

| Order | Strategy | Description | Defaults |
|--:|--|--|--|

> | **1** | Rate limiter | The rate limiter pipeline limits the maximum number of concurrent requests being sent to the dependency. | Queue: 1,000<br>Permit: 0 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **1** | Rate limiter | The rate limiter pipeline limits the maximum number of concurrent requests being sent to the dependency. | Queue: _1,000_<br>Permit: 0 |
```

for emphasis?

Author: I'll make them inline code instead.

> | **1** | Rate limiter | The rate limiter pipeline limits the maximum number of concurrent requests being sent to the dependency. | Queue: 1,000<br>Permit: 0 |

Reviewer 2: Isn't this the opposite way around? [Code](https://github.com/App-vNext/Polly/blob/9ca23fe8f38f3885566a5105e3779024ddbd049e/src/Polly.RateLimiting/RateLimiterConstants.cs#L7-L9)

| **2** | Total timeout | The total request timeout pipeline applies an overall timeout to the execution, ensuring that the request, including retry attempts, doesn't exceed the configured limit. | Total timeout: 30s |

> | **3** | Retry | The retry pipeline retries the request in case the dependency is slow or returns a transient error. | Max retries: 3<br>Backoff: Constant<br>Use jitter: `false`<br>Delay:2s |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **3** | Retry | The retry pipeline retries the request in case the dependency is slow or returns a transient error. | Max retries: 3<br>Backoff: Exponential<br>Use jitter: `true`<br>Delay:2s |
```

`HttpRettryStrategyOptions` changes some defaults:

https://github.com/dotnet/extensions/blob/afde87b8812ef0b1dcee5db35cb3a49ca6dc9197/src/Libraries/Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience/Polly/HttpRetryStrategyOptions.cs#L27

| **2** | Total timeout | The total request timeout pipeline applies an overall timeout to the execution, ensuring that the request, including retry attempts, doesn't exceed the configured limit. | Total timeout: 30s |
| **3** | Retry | The retry pipeline retries the request in case the dependency is slow or returns a transient error. | Max retries: `3`<br>Backoff: `Exponential`<br>Use jitter: `true`<br>Delay:2s |
| **4** | Circuit breaker | The circuit breaker blocks the execution if too many direct failures or timeouts are detected. | Failure ratio: 10%<br>Min throughput: `100`<br>Sampling duration: 30s<br>Break duration: 5s |
| **5** | Attempt timeout | The attempt timeout pipeline limits each request attempt duration and throws if it's exceeded. | Attempt timeout: 10s |

#### Retries and circuit breakers

The retry and circuit breaker strategies both handle a set of specific HTTP status codes and exceptions. Consider the following HTTP status codes:

- HTTP 500 and above (Server errors)
- HTTP 408 (Request timeout)
- HTTP 429 (Too many requests)

Additionally, these strategies handle the following exceptions:

- `HttpRequestException`

> - `TimeoutRejectedException`

Reviewer: Can we do the same thing for hedging? Just add circuit breaker exception too.

Author: I'm not sure I follow. So, the Hedging handler employs what defaults?

Reviewer: Hedging has different `ShouldHandle` predicate compared to standard resilience:

https://github.com/dotnet/extensions/blob/b60b982e9b5bc6273aaed1f70f9002e381aae97a/src/Libraries/Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience/Hedging/HttpClientHedgingResiliencePredicates.cs#L53

Maybe just note that status codes/exceptions are the same as compared to standard resilience, but hedging strategy also handles `BrokenCircuitException`.

The preceding code adds the standard hedging handler to the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.IHttpClientBuilder>. The default configuration chains five resilience strategies in the following order (from the outermost to the innermost):

| Order | Strategy | Description | Defaults |
|--:|--|--|--|
| **1** | Total request timeout | The total request timeout pipeline applies an overall timeout to the execution, ensuring that the request, including hedging attempts, doesn't exceed the configured limit. | Total timeout: 30s |
| **2** | Hedging | The hedging strategy executes the requests against multiple endpoints in case the dependency is slow or returns a transient error. Routing is options, by default it just hedges the URL provided by the original <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpRequestMessage>. | Min attempts: 1<br>Max attempts: 10<br>Delay: 2s |

> | **3** | Rate limiter (per endpoint) | The rate limiter pipeline limits the maximum number of concurrent requests being sent to the dependency. | Queue: 1,000<br>Permit: 0 |

Reviewer 2: Same here.
